>Document Object Model, or DOM, is an Application Programming Interface (API) that enables programmatic modification of the element trees corresponding to web pages. 

For example:
```
var ul = document.createElement('ul')

data.forEach(function(note) {
  var li = document.createElement('li')

  ul.appendChild(li)
  li.appendChild(document.createTextNode(note.content))
})
```

### Loading a page containing JS - example

    The browser fetches the HTML code defining the content and the structure of the page from the server using an HTTP GET request.
    Links in the HTML code cause the browser to also fetch the CSS style sheet main.css...
    ...and the JavaScript code file main.js
    The browser executes the JavaScript code. The code makes an HTTP GET request to the address https://studies.cs.helsinki.fi/exampleapp/data.json, which returns the notes as JSON data.
    When the data has been fetched, the browser executes an event handler, which renders the notes to the page using the DOM-API.

### AJAX
>AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) is a term introduced in February 2005 on the back of advancements in browser technology to describe a new revolutionary approach that enabled the fetching of content to web pages using JavaScript included within the HTML, without the need to rerender the page.
>
>Before the AJAX era, all web pages worked like the traditional web application we saw earlier in this chapter. All of the data shown on the page was fetched with the HTML code generated by the server.

### Single Page Applications
>In recent years, the Single-page application (SPA) style of creating web applications has emerged. SPA-style websites don't fetch all of their pages separately from the server like our sample application does, but instead comprise only one HTML page fetched from the server, the contents of which are manipulated with JavaScript that executes in the browser.